# Smart-India-Hackathon
Problem Statement Title: Application based solution for tracking and creating information system for Overloaded Commercial vehicles

Description: Overloading on highways and roads is a serious issue in India, as well as in other developing countries of the world. Although the phenomenon of overloading is not new, so far not much discussion has been done on vehicle overloading in developing countries. It is estimated that about over 50% of commercial vehicles plying on India's national highways and state highways are overloaded. This is particularly serious in the vicinity of mining areas. The legal axle load limits and gross vehicle weight limits are overlooked and violated by the transporters. The problems resulting from overloading are manifold. Newly constructed roads experience accelerated loading conditions resulting in loading to exceed the limits much before their design life is over. This results in premature failure of roads. The maintenance aspect also becomes tricky due to this factor with the consequent fallout as poor condition of roads or heavy maintenance cost required to keep them in shape. Other negative effects of overloading include increased incidences of road accidents, damage to vehicles, lower speeds and inefficiency, delays to vehicular traffic and congestion. Overloading of vehicles is not only detrimental to the economic life of the highways and the roads on which the mechanical vehicles ply but more importantly also leads to larger safety related issues. Hence, there is an urgent need to spread awareness and alarming message to curb this practice. Together with this, methods have to be put in place to identify and catch overloaded vehicles and take strict actions, including heavy penalties and seizure of vehicles. Recently, the Government has mandated the use of Fastag for payment toll collection at all National Highways. Similarly, A mechanism can be developed by installation of electronic weighing machines at all toll plazas on National Highways to prevent and detect overloading of commercial goods transport vehicles. These automated electronic weighing machines would weigh the load of the vehicles and send the recorded reading/information to the toll booth along with fastag details of the vehicle so weighed. The information may be shared with the next toll booth at the highways where the penalties, if any, would be levied and deducted from the Fastag balance of the Vehicle. The integrated data of the vehicles can also be collected and maintained for getting the details of vehicles which are usually involved in overloading. The toll plazas are connected with a network and are able to exchange vital information about the overloaded vehicles. Application of such methods poses challenges, but output of such methods will be worth the efforts. Participants may identify/analyze the problem in detail and propose the solution by developing AI/ML based software/algorithm or conceptualization of ideas for problem solution.

Organization: National Institute of Design Madhya Pradesh

Category: Software

Domain Bucket: Smart Automation

PS Number: ST892

